Lost Cow (#5226)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/bronze/usaco-735.mdx

id: usaco-735
source: USACO Bronze 2017 Open
title: The Lost Cow
author: Jesse Choe, Ananth Kashyap, Brad Ma, Rameez Parwez
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_lostcow_bronze_open17.html)

> ## Explanation

Reviewer: i think maybe briefly explain how you would analyze the time complexity of this?

cuz someone in bronze might be a little confused (at least, i think i was when i first looked at this problem)

Author: ok

> At each step, check where Farmer John starts and where he's trying to go. If his path doesn't overlap with

Reviewer 2: maybe write them in first person "we check ..." instead of just as a directive, i think that's how tense usually works in editorials

Author: ok

> Bessie's path, we simply need to add the distance he convers to a running total and move him to his starting position.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bessie's path, we add the distance he convers to a running total and move him to his starting position.
```
in general, refrain from using words like "simply", "just", or "easily"

Author: roger that

> But if his path somehow overlaps with Bessie's, we only need to add the distance from his current location to Bessi's position to the total.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if his path somehow overlaps with Bessie's, we only need to add his distance from Bessie to the total.
```

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <fstream>
#include <iostream>

int main() {

> 

Reviewer: remove this extra space

Author: done

	std::ifstream cin("lostcow.in");
	std::ofstream cout("lostcow.out");
	int x, y;
	cin >> x >> y;

	int direction = 1;
	int total_distance = 0;
	int direction_distance = 1;

	while (true) {

> 		// found bessie

Reviewer: put the comment under the if statement

like maybe

```
if (condition) {
     // we found bessie
     // (talk about what we do)
} else {
     // bessie not found
     // what do we do here?
}
```

Author: ok

		if ((direction == 1 && x <= y && y <= (x + direction_distance)) ||
		    (direction == -1 && y <= x && (x - direction_distance) <= y)) {
			total_distance +=
			    std::abs(y - x);  // distance to bessie from original position
			cout << total_distance << std::endl;
			break;
		} else {  // bessie not found
			total_distance += direction_distance * 2;
			direction_distance *= 2;
			direction *= -1;  // switch directions
		}
	}
}
```

</CPPSection>
<JavaSection>

```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.StringTokenizer;

public class theLostCow {
	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		Kattio io = new Kattio("lostcow");
		int x = io.nextInt();
		int y = io.nextInt();

		int direction = 1;
		int totalDistance = 0;
		int directionDistance = 1;

		while (true) {

> 			// found bessie

Reviewer: stuff about comments applies here
